>> Will Sentance: All right folks, so at
this point, we're gonna take a break for
pair programming to come,
many more higher order functions,
linking them up the absolute
core part five,
the absolute core of functional
programming, function composition,
then later we're gonna go into
closure function decoration.
And all to come, the most advanced
pieces POS application and
carrying, but for now,
we're gonna work through a series of
pair program coding challenges,
on higher order functions.
And I think I'm gonna pair you up
honestly by who you're sitting next to
as a relatively shared
level of experience.
So, folk on line will hopefully
be able to take these challenges,
but I have a pair programming
set of challenges.
I'm gonna write it on the whiteboard here,
I don't know if I'm allowed to do this,
but here it is, CS bin, and I'm gonna tell
you about how to pair program the second,
and I think it's called functional.
Have a look at that,
maybe Mark's gonna look for that,
I think it's called functional,
and it's a series of challenges,
which we're gonna work through today,
and it's here that you're going to
actually grow as an engineer, watching
me talk is a quarter of the story.
It's when you actually
test it out yourself,
when you actually hit a block and have to
use the underlying mental model you've
hopefully built, hopefully you've
built an underlying mental model here.
And that should enable you that is the
point of hard parts to build an underlying
mental model, to enable you to
tackle any new challenge yourself.
Here is the problem, you work solo,
a couple things happen, one, when you
hit a block, we're very tempted to step
away and do anything else, it's amazing.
It is amazing, cuz I've done it a few
times where I've not stepped away,
I try to force myself
through in that moment.
Cuz I know that it's the one
I most wanna step away,
that I had the biggest breakthrough
in the next few seconds,
literally the next few minutes usually.
It's kind of insane like when I'm
preparing talks, and wrestling how to and
I wanna step away,
I want anything else, I want my phone,
thrown on the other side
of the room of course,
my Internets turned off sort of stuff,
but still I wanna step away.
When you go to pair programming partner,
you can't step away, you've gotta partner
in crime so you can do the hard
challenges, and that's where you grow.
What else is so
great about pair programming?
Technical communication, with a pair,
what we actually have to do suppose we had
Jasmine and Seth, I presume that sort of,
so Jasmine and Seth,
let's suppose Jasmine is our navigator.
So there's two roles, the navigation and
the driver, Jasmine is going to give Seth
an overall strategy, to approach each
challenge, so she's gonna say things like
okay, Seth, let's start off here by
declaring a function, we'll call it map.
Let's have it, it says it's gonna take a
parameter of an array, take a parameter of
an array, and say Seth,
let's take a function of callback, okay?
Let's go check what we know, a callback
is always a function definition,
okay let's have a take
a function definition.
Let's test it out before we start invoking
it by actually calling that with those two
arguments, and see what the return value
is, and it's undefined of course okay,
and now Seth's job is to turn her
virtualization in more pseudo code terms,
into actual code with the keyboard.
Her technical communication better
be on point because Jasmine is not
allowed to say,
Seth what I meant was this,
get your hands on the keyboard and
start typing it out for him.
Her job is that what ever happens it's her
responsibility to be able to communicate
with such precision, that Seth can't
fail but to convert it into code.
And by the way, Seth, so your technical
communication goes up immensely.
That's why I put so much pressure on you
all to say things like yes, the one on
the right hand side, we were gonna invoke
the function, and its returned value is
gonna be assigned on the left hand side,
as opposed to just saying multiply by 2.
No no, that's call multiply by
two with the argument of three,
right it's very precise and let's say
I've actually converted into code.
And Seth by the way even if he feels like
Jasmine's navigating him down the wrong
path, he doesn't correct her, because
all the time she's actually right, and
he learns a new approach to solving
the problem, but half time yeah so
maybe she's wrong, but
you now wanna embrace getting the error.
You wanna press Run, Seth wants to
press Run, Jasmine wants to press Run,
see an error, and
now Seth knows what the error is, and
that feels pretty good
because what a mean way, but
[LAUGH] rather because now errors
are no longer a mystery to him.
Now that error that he gets a witness
his partner puzzling over an error,
and he knows ha got it, that error is
a tool to help me debug this code.
Because I kind of know what it means, when
it says unexpected token or function is
undefined, he knows why, and now that
error is no longer this black box,
it's a black box but
he's sitting inside of it, super powerful.